I am Supratik Chatterjee, a Computer Science and Engineering graduate employed at TCS as a Software Developer. I want to study Computational Creativity from you and seek your guidance on what to do for it.

My interest in the topic is due to my prior work, where frequently, a specialized feature would need it. The first instance, was during my major project([News Analysis and Summarization](https://github.com/supratikchatterjee16/nasty)), which required Anaphora Resolution(NLP). While the current application is through predictive categorization, I believe computational creativity will yield better results, as it is subjective. The second instance was the packing economics in website UI design and the tradeoff between content and experience concerning space utilization([Workbench V2(Private)](https://github.com/supratikchatterjee16/workbench_v2)) which, while working with a designer to prepare UI/UX concepts, was expensive and a blind spot for them. Computational Creativity, if paired with the design thinking process, should hypothetically allow us to organize these components better. Attempting to procedurally distribute 'resources' in a game developed with a friend and making a separate [planning algorithm](https://github.com/supratikchatterjee16/satisfactory-notebook) within the popular game 'Satisfactory'(which involves logistical planning for resource acquisition and processing, and factory structuring) revealed new use cases for the same. The same algorithm, if standardized, might help with factory planning in the real world, as even here, it is about understanding the packing of the manufacturing units. Other use cases such as [Antennas using Evolutionary Algorithms(NASA and JEM)](https://ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub-archive/1244h/1244%20(Hornby).pdf) and [OpenAI's demonstration of GANN on a multi-agent game with team-based coordination](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lu56xVlZ40M&vl=en) got me interested even further. While researching the topics, I came across papers such as 'A Task Structure for Case-Based Design'(written by you and B. Chandrashekharan) when researching 'case-based design' and Assistant Professor Matthew Guzdial's paper on 'Procedural Content Generation via Machine Learning(PCGML)' and 'Conceptual Game Expansion', when researching resource distribution.

A summary of my formal experiences, learnings, and education undertaken are:  Major topics studied are Object-Oriented Programming, Object-Oriented Analysis and Design. Electives chosen during undergraduate studies were Distributed Computing, Linux Internals, Natural Language Processing, Data Warehousing and Data Mining, Management Information Systems, Cloud Computing, and the Internet of Things. Subjects studied in TCS were Innovation and Creativity, Design Thinking, Problem Solving, Process Improvement, Retail, Banking, and Financial Services, and Product Creation. My work required me to study the topics of Data Visualization, Web Security for OSI model, Microservices Architecture, Frontend APIs(Web Sockets, WebRTC, SubtleCrypto, Custom Elements, Fetch), Load Balancing through NGINX, WSGI, and more. My work at TCS required continued practice in the topics of Object-Oriented Programming, Software Design, RDBMS data design, working with multiple programming languages(PL/SQL, Python, JS, Java, HTML, CSS, ASP.NET, C#), Data Visualization, Experience Design, Functional Modeling, Technical Modeling, and Innovation and Creativity. Attached is my CV for explaining further details and my projects are available on [my GitHub profile](https://github.com/supratikchatterje16). I have taught my peers and juniors in my college and mentored multiple groups of sizes 2 to 5 in my company. My seniors recognize my prowess in Web Application design and development.

I wish to pursue an in-depth study in the application of creativity in computers, the application areas, and the methods to improve the turn-around time to utilize it so that it finds widespread adoption amongst developers, much in the way the subject of machine learning does today, for artificial narrow intelligence.