# Knowledge Management

Knowledge Management (KM) for any organization must lead to leveraging the organizational and contextual knowledge for the enhanced quality, business benefits, growth and competitive advantage perceived by the customer, stakeholder and organization.

It has 6 segments to it : 

1. Community of Practices
2. Contextual Stories
3. Knowledge Discovery
4. Reusable Components
5. Project Jumpstart Kit
6. Knowledge Sharing

KM influencers : 

1. Customer Centricity
2. Industry Trends
3. Strategic Priorities
4. Benchmarking
5. Competitor Analysis
6. User Feedback
7. Latest Technology Trends

Outcomes : 

1. Customer Centricity
2. Industry Trends
3. Strategic Priorities
4. Benchmarking
5. Cempetitor Analysis
6. User Feedback
7. Latest Technology Trends

"The basic economic resource—the means of production—is no longer capital, nor natural resources, nor labor. It is and will be knowledge." - Peter Drucker

After this endorsement, organizations began the process of learning how to manage knowledge.
Managing knowledge is something all companies will have to master if they expect to compete in this global economy. Organizations who learn quickly, and leverage and use that knowledge, will have a big advantage over those who don’t.


KM is not only about processes and technology. It revolves around people and culture, it can be called an Art and Science as well.

Knowledge Management is the discipline of enabling individuals, teams, and entire organizations to collectively and systematically create, share, and apply knowledge, to better achieve business objectives.

Knowledge Management is the discipline of enabling individuals, teams, and entire organizations to collectively and systematically create, share, and apply knowledge, to better achieve business objectives.

KM comprises a range of strategies and practices used in an organization to identify, create, represent, distribute, and enable adoption of insights and experiences. Such insights and experiences comprise knowledge, either embodied in individuals or embedded in organizations as processes or practices.

KM efforts, typically focus on organizational objectives such as improved performance, competitive advantage, innovation, sharing best practices and lessons learned, integration and continuous improvement of the organization. 

Challenges faced by TCS : 

1. Customer Expectations
2. Complexity of Engagements
3. Competitive Pressures
4. Employee Churn
5. Innovations in Marketplace

